14.1 Dynamic order statistics

An order-statistic tree T is simply a red-black tree with additional information
stored in each node. Besides the usual red-black tree attributes x.key, x.color, x.p,
x.left, and x.right in a node x, we have another attribute, x.size. This attribute
contains the number of (internal) nodes in the subtree rooted at x (including x
itself), that is, the size of the subtree. If we define the sentinel’s size to be 0—that
is, we set T.nil.size to be 0—then we have the identity

x.size = x.left.size + x.right.size + 1

We do not require keys to be distinct in an order-statistic tree.

Defining the rank of an element as the position at which it would be printed 
in an inorder walk of the tree.

1.Retrieving an element with a given rank
OS-SELECT(x,i)
1 r = x.left.size + 1
2 if i == r
3     return x
4 elseif i < r
5     return OS-SELECT(x.left,i)
6 else return OS-SELECT(x.right,i-r)

In line 1 of OS-SELECT, we compute r, the rank of node x within the subtree
rooted at x.

Since the subtree rooted at x contains r elements that come before x’s right 
subtree in an inorder tree walk, the i th smallest element in the subtree rooted 
at x is the (i-r)th smallest element in the subtree rooted at x.right.

Because each recursive call goes down one level in the order-statistic tree, the
total time for OS-SELECT is at worst proportional to the height of the tree. Since
the tree is a red-black tree, its height is O(lgn), where n is the number of nodes.
Thus, the running time of OS-SELECT is O(lgn) for a dynamic set of n elements.

2.Determining the rank of an element
OS-RANK(T,x)
1 r = x.left.size + 1
2 y = x
3 while y ≠ T.root
4     if y == y.p.right
5         r = r + y.p.left.size + 1
6     y - y.p
7 return r

Since each iteration of the while loop takes O(1) time, and y goes up one level in
the tree with each iteration, the running time of OS-RANK is at worst proportional
to the height of the tree: O(lgn) on an n-node order-statistic tree.

3.Maintaining subtree sizes
on page 343

14.1-3
Write a nonrecursive version of OS-SELECT.