2.2 Analyzing algorithms

In the RAM model, instructions are executed one after another,
with no concurrent operations.

1.Analysis of insertion sort
The time taken by the INSERTION-SORT procedure depends on the input: sorting a
thousand numbers takes longer than sorting three numbers. Moreover, INSERTIONSORT
can take different amounts of time to sort two input sequences of the same
size depending on how nearly sorted they already are. In general, the time taken
by an algorithm grows with the size of the input, so it is traditional to describe the
running time of a program as a function of the size of its input. To do so, we need
to define the terms “running time” and “size of input” more carefully.

//不同的问题有不同输入大小的衡量方法
The best notion for input size depends on the problem being studied.
//对于计算，是输入项的大小 
For many
problems, such as sorting or computing discrete Fourier transforms, the most natural
measure is the number of items in the input, for example, the array size n
for sorting. 
//对于乘法，是二进制位数目 
For many other problems, such as multiplying two integers, the best
measure of input size is the total number of bits needed to represent the input in
ordinary binary notation. Sometimes, it is more appropriate to describe the size of
the input with two numbers rather than one.
//对于图，是顶点和边 
 For instance, if the input to an algorithm
is a graph, the input size can be described by the numbers of vertices and
edges in the graph. We shall indicate which input size measure is being used with
each problem we study.
//抽象：算法的每一行执行时间就相当于计算机执行指令
The running time of an algorithm on a particular input is the number of primitive
operations or “steps” executed. It is convenient to define the notion of step so
that it is as machine-independent as possible. For the moment, let us adopt the
following view. A constant amount of time is required to execute each line of our
pseudocode. One line may take a different amount of time than another line, but
we shall assume that each execution of the i th line takes time ci, where ci is a
constant. This viewpoint is in keeping with the RAM model, and it also reflects
how the pseudocode would be implemented on most actual computers.

//主要关注最差运行时间：最差运行时间给出上界;大多数算法的最差运行时间经常出现；平均运行时间
//通常和最差运行时间大致相同
2.Worst-case and average-case analysis
For the remainder of this book, though, we shall usually concentrate on
finding only the worst-case running time, that is, the longest running time for any
input of size n. We give three reasons for this orientation.

1)The worst-case running time of an algorithm gives us an upper bound on the
running time for any input.

2)For some algorithms, the worst case occurs fairly often.

3)The “average case” is often roughly as bad as the worst case.

In some particular cases, we shall be interested in the average-case running time
of an algorithm; we shall see the technique of probabilistic analysis applied to
various algorithms throughout this book.
//平均case的分析受限, 因为什么是平均输入不明显 
 The scope of average-case analysis is
limited, because it may not be apparent what constitutes an “average” input for
a particular problem. Often, we shall assume that all inputs of a given size are
equally likely. In practice, this assumption may be violated, but we can sometimes
use a randomized algorithm, which makes random choices, to allow a probabilistic
analysis and yield an expected running time. We explore randomized algorithms
more in Chapter 5 and in several other subsequent chapters.

3.Order of growth
rate of growth,or order of growth;

We usually consider one algorithm to be more efficient than another if its worst case
running time has a lower order of growth.